Included C++ Implementation in USACO feb20-triangles and dec19-gymnastics (#694)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/USACO dec19-gymnastics.mdx

id: usaco-963
source: USACO Bronze 2019 December
title: Cow Gymnastics
author: Krish Thawani (Java), Hua Zhi Vee (C++)
---

> [Official Analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_gymnastics_bronze_dec19.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Official Analysis C++](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_gymnastics_bronze_dec19.html)
```

Reviewer: for more clearance

Reviewer 2: official analysis is standard

```
</JavaSection>

<CPPSection>

### C++ Implementation
We create a 2D array of booleans which states if A has a ranking higher than B in any point of time. We use $\mathcal{O}(K \cdot N^2)$ to create this array. Then we use $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ to iterate through all pairs and check if they satisfy the condition. The overall time complexity is hence $\mathcal{O}(K \cdot N^2)$. 

```cpp 
#include<bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

bool b[20][20]; // b[A-1][B-1] = 1 if A was better than B in any session.

int main(){
	ifstream fin("gymnastics.in");
	ofstream fout("gymnastics.out");
	
	int k, n; fin >> k >> n;
	int a[n];
	while(k--){ // Looping through k times
		for(int i=0;i<n;i++) fin >> a[i];
		
		for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
			for(int j=i+1;j<n;j++){
				b[a[i]-1][a[j]-1] = true;
			}
		}
	}
	
	int count = 0;
	for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
		for(int j=i+1;j<n;j++){

>             // If not both are true, we count it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		// If not both are true, we count it
```
Tab indentations

```
</JavaSection>

<CPPSection>

## Alternate Solution

> We generate the ranking when we read the data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We generate the ranking as we read the data.
```

We create a 2D array of booleans which states if $A$ has a ranking higher than $B$ in any point of time.
We read every ranking, then for all $\frac{n(n+1)}{2}$ pairs we set $b[A][B]=\text{true}$.

> Then we iterate though all pairs in $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ time and check if they satisfy the condition. At least one of $b[A][B]$ and $b[B][A]$ must be true, and hence we only need to check if they are both true. If one of them is false, we increment our $\texttt{count}$ by 1.

Reviewer 3: you should note that either all or exactly one must be true.

**Time complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(K \cdot N^2)$. 

```cpp 
#include<bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

bool b[20][20]; // b[A-1][B-1] = 1 if A was better than B in any session.

int main(){
	ifstream fin("gymnastics.in");
	ofstream fout("gymnastics.out");
	
	int k, n; fin >> k >> n;
	int a[n];
	while(k--){ // Looping through k times
		for(int i=0;i<n;i++) fin >> a[i];
		
		for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
			for(int j=i+1;j<n;j++){
				b[a[i]-1][a[j]-1] = true;
			}
		}
	}
	
	int count = 0;
	for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
		for(int j=i+1;j<n;j++){

> 			// If not both are true, we count it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			// If either is false, we increment the count
```

```
</JavaSection>

<CPPSection>

> ### Alternate Solution

Reviewer 2: use ##

We generate the ranking as we read the data.

We create a 2D array of booleans which states if $A$ has a ranking higher than $B$ in any point of time.

> We read every ranking, then for all $\frac{n(n+1)}{2}$ pairs we set $b[A][B]=\text{true}$.

Reviewer 2: Wrap b array with \texttt

Reviewer 4: no :(

> We read every ranking, then for all $\frac{n(n+1)}{2}$ pairs we set $\texttt{b}[A][B]=\text{true}$.

Reviewer 4: > $\frac{n(n+1)}{2}$

n*(n-1)/2?

Reviewer 3: nice catch!

> We use $\mathcal{O}(K \cdot N^2)$ to create this array.

Reviewer 2: remove this line

> Then we iterate though all pairs in $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ time and check if they satisfy the condition. At least one of $b[A][B]$ and $b[B][A]$ must be true, and hence we only need to check if they are both true. If one of them is false, we increment our $\texttt{count}$ by 1.

Reviewer 2: same here

> Then we iterate though all pairs in $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ time and check if they satisfy the condition. At least one of $\texttt{b}[A][B]$ and $\texttt{b}[B][A]$ must be true, and hence we only need to check if they are both true. If one of them is false, we increment our $\texttt{count}$ by 1.

Reviewer 4: don't use \texttt around single-letter variable names. Why is N capitalized here but not capitalized above?

> Then we iterate though all pairs in $\mathcal{O}(n^2)$ time and check if they satisfy the condition. At least one of $b[A][B]$ and $b[B][A]$ must be true, and hence we only need to check if they are both true. If they are not both true, we increment our $\texttt{count}$ by 1.

Reviewer 2: use N^2 not n^2

> Then we iterate though all pairs in $\mathcal{O}(n^2)$ time and check if they satisfy the condition. At least one of $b[A][B]$ and $b[B][A]$ must be true, and hence we only need to check if they are both true. If they are not both true, we increment our $\texttt{count}$ by 1.

Reviewer 2: one is false instead of not both true

```
</JavaSection>

> <CPPSection>

Reviewer 3: move this below `**Time complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(K \cdot N^2)$.`(i think this is breaking the build)

### Solution 1

> From [official analysis](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_gymnastics_bronze_dec19.html): As the problem statement says, for each pair of cows $(A,B)$, we will count how many practice sessions cow $A$ did better than cow $B$ in. If cow $A$ did better than cow $B$ in all K practice sessions, we increment a counter, and we'll print out the value of the counter once we've looped over all pairs of cows.

Reviewer 2: no need to put sol 1, just put alternate sol and ur explanatino

### Solution 2

We generate the ranking when we read the data.

We create a 2D array of booleans which states if $A$ has a ranking higher than $B$ in any point of time.
We read every ranking, then for all $\frac{n(n+1)}{2}$ pairs we set $b[A][B]=\text{true}$.

We use $\mathcal{O}(K \cdot N^2)$ to create this array.

> Then we use $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ to iterate through all pairs and check if they satisfy the condition. At least one of $b[A][B]$ and $b[B][A]$ must be true, and hence we only need to check if they are both true. If they are not both true, we increment our $\text{count}$ by 1.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then we use $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ to iterate through all pairs and check if they satisfy the condition. At least one of $b[A][B]$ and $b[B][A]$ must be true, and hence we only need to check if they are both true. If they are not both true, we increment our $\texttt{count}$ by 1.
```

> Then we use $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$ to iterate through all pairs and check if they satisfy the condition. At least one of $b[A][B]$ and $b[B][A]$ must be true, and hence we only need to check if they are both true. If they are not both true, we increment our $\text{count}$ by 1.

Reviewer 2: Then we iterate though all pairs in n^2 time

**Time complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(K \cdot N^2)$. 

```cpp 
#include<bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

bool b[20][20]; // b[A-1][B-1] = 1 if A was better than B in any session.

int main(){
	ifstream fin("gymnastics.in");
	ofstream fout("gymnastics.out");
	
	int k, n; fin >> k >> n;
	int a[n];
	while(k--){ // Looping through k times
		for(int i=0;i<n;i++) fin >> a[i];
		
		for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
			for(int j=i+1;j<n;j++){
				b[a[i]-1][a[j]-1] = true;
			}
		}
	}
	
	int count = 0;
	for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
		for(int j=i+1;j<n;j++){

> 		// If not both are true, we count it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			// If not both are true, we count it
```
